README.md, before:

# raku-Yachts-Navigation

This Jupyter Notebook is intended as a Raku coding companion to anyone who is working on the theory aspects of yachting.
The aim is to help intermediate students of yacht cruising to learn and appreciate modern software coding techiques and to apply them to perform interactive calculations.
The author has chosen raku over other programming languages, such as Python or Go, for a number of reasons: (i) Unicode makes it more natural to express nautical formulae, (ii) Rational numbers are more suitable for navigation problems, (iii) it combines Object Oriented, Functional and Procedural programming in a expressive way that matches the needs of nautical problems and (iv) it has a basic set of commands 'baby raku' that can be grasped quickly by newcomers to programming.
No prior knowledge of yachting or coding are needed to start - the concepts are introduced gradually by example.
More on raku language can be found at http://raku.org and http://docs.raku.org. I highly recommend 'Think Raku' by Laurent Rosenfeld, with Allen Downey (https://greenteapress.com/wp/think-perl-6/) as an excellent introduction to modern programming for beginningers without any prior knowledge of coding. Raku is the new name for perl6.
This content is provided under the Artistic licence 2.0.

Commit message:

pull text in from College Physics

README.md, after:

## raku-Yachts-Navigation
Uses (https://github.com/p6steve/raku-Physics-Measure)

## Yachts and Navigation - Raku Coding Companion

This Jupyter Notebook is intended as a Raku coding companion to anyone who is working on the theory aspects of yachting. The original code is located ad maintained here https://github.com/p6steve/raku-Yachts-Navigation.

The aim is to help intermediate students of yacht cruising to learn and appreciate modern software coding techiques and to apply them to perform interactive calculations.

The author has chosen raku over other programming languages, such as Python or Go, for a number of reasons: (i) Unicode makes it more natural to express nautical formulae, (ii) Rational numbers are more suitable for navigation problems, (iii) it combines Object Oriented, Functional and Procedural programming in a expressive way that matches the needs of nautical problems and (iv) it has a basic set of commands 'baby raku' that can be grasped quickly by newcomers to programming.

No prior knowledge of yachting or coding are needed to start - the concepts are introduced gradually by example.

More on raku language can be found at http://raku.org and http://docs.raku.org. I highly recommend 'Think Raku' by Laurent Rosenfeld, with Allen Downey (https://greenteapress.com/wp/think-perl-6/) as an excellent introduction to modern programming for beginningers without any prior knowledge of coding. Raku is the new name for perl6.

This content is provided under the Artistic licence 2.0.

# Instructions
To use follow these examples:

1. Jupyter Notebook hosted on Binder
- Click this badge => [![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/p6steve/perl6-CollegePhysics/master)
- If a Built image is found (click Build logs 'show') then this takes approx 45secs. If you are the first to build e.g. a new version this can take 30 mins or so and the Binder browser UI may lose hope - please just be patient (do not reload as this restarts the build) or maybe follow option #2.
- Go to /eg and click Synopsis.ipynb, then Run each cell - explore & enjoy!

2. Jupyter Notebook local
- *zef install --verbose Physics::Measure* (10 mins)
- *git clone https://github.com/p6steve/perl6-Physics-Measure-JupyterBinder.git* this repo on your machine
- Do the Quick Start here Brian Duggan perl6 jupyter-notebook at <https://github.com/bduggan/p6-jupyter-kernel>
- From the root directory run *jupyter-notebook*
- Go to /eg and click Synopsis.ipynb, then Run each cell - explore & enjoy!

# Inspired by
* Brian Duggan's perl6 jupyter-notebook at <https://github.com/bduggan/p6-jupyter-kernel>
